(whooshing)
Let's get the rest of this form out
and let's also get some styling in it.
So I believe I've given you a form styles.
There we go, if we look at form.js
and that is in our styles folder.
You'll see it's some pretty basic styles
just to give us a nice-looking form.
The only other thing is this loading keyframe
and I'm gonna show you what that does in just a second.
So let's go here, let's go to our form tag
and let's replace it with capital F.
Let's double check that the closing Form tag
has an F on it.
Good.
And then let's try to auto import it.
Boom, we auto imported.
There, look at that, look at how nice that looks already.
Okay.
Next, we want to, we can get rid of these buttons.
I was just showing you how these methods work
but we will have a button with the type of submit
and then we'll just say plus Add Product.
All right, next what we need
is we need the ability to disable all of our inputs
and each input can take a disabled attribute.
You see like that.
But if you wanna disable a whole group of inputs at once,
unfortunately, you can't put a disabled attribute
on the Form tag but you can put a disabled attribute
on a fieldset.
A field set is a way to allow you
to group together multiple fields.
So I don't know, I found this trick a while ago
and I've been using it in all of my forms
'cause I find it so handy
just to be able to disable a whole set of inputs
because when you click Add Product,
there's gonna be a second or two
while it's talking to the backend and validating
and when we get to charging a credit card,
it's gonna take a second to do that as well.
So we'll need to just sort of disable the input
so the user can't start deleting and adding things
while we're doing work.
So we'll go here and we'll just take a fieldset.
And then we will wrap all of our stuff in that fieldset.
And then watch, if we go to our fieldset here,
we can say disabled is equal to,
if you just say disabled is equal to true,
you see how everything gets removed at that point
and then if we take it off, oops,
you'll see everything is editable.
We also have another thing,
so called aria-busy
and that is an accessibility attribute
where we can set that to true.
And what that will do
is it will give us this little loading indicator,
showing us something that is happening.
So rather than having like a class of loading
or isBusy or anything like that,
what I like to do is just reach
for existing aria accessibility attributes
and just use those to show a loading state.
That way it's accessible
as well as that way, it's easy to style.
If we take a look here,
and if we look for the word busy,
here we go, we'll say when the fieldset
has a busy attribute,
what we do is we take this background image
and we just change the animation on it
and it's just moving the background
of this thing really, really quickly.
So if we were to change it to 0.1 second,
look how, (Wes humming) look how fast that goes, right?
So we're just showing the user that something
is happening without having to add and remove classes.
You simply just mark it as busy
and then the CSS will pick it up from there.
That's one of my favorite little tricks
is using aria attributes to style them
so that they're accessible,
as well as for users can visually see
that something is happening.
All right, so we've got this fieldset here.
We're going to take off the loading
and disable the attributes for now
'cause we don't have all those values
from our mutation just yet.
We also need a image
and let's just go to this label here and duplicate it.
We're gonna replace this one with Image, htmlFor image.
The type is going to be a file.
The id will be image.
Name is image.
Placeholder, there is no placeholder on that.
There is no value in this case
just because that's a different way
that file uploads work in React
and then we do keep the handleChange event happening there.
There we go.
Can we put a placeholder on an image?
Placeholder is equal to Upload an Image!
No, there's no placeholder on an image.
If you wanted to do something,
you would have to put it up in here
and that way when we go ahead and select an image,
boom, uh oh.
Zero is read only.
Okay, we've got a bit of an issue here with this image.
Let's debug this right now.
So is our useForm hook
where we check if the type is equal to a file,
we set the array of the value to be zero.
Okay.
Let's just do value.
I'm not sure why I had that.
Maybe that was wrong.
Let's take the square brackets off that value.
Refresh.
Okay, so that gives us the image.
The upload doesn't work yet.
But we'll tackle that when we get to it
and we'll just go one step further
and look at our React Dev Tools
and we'll go into our,
which component specifically is it?
Let's click on here.
Go to our Components here.
There we go, it's in the CreateProduct, our hooks,
state, there we go.
There's our image or the array.
There we go, okay, that makes sense.
So it's an array.
I think what I wanted to do there
is to set the value of the image not to an array of images
but just to be the first item.
Let's try that.
Oh, now this is giving us an error.
Use array destructuring, eslint preferred.
Oh, I see, I see what I wanted to do there.
You wanna destructure, we want this, right?
We want the first file to be put into the value thing here
but now I'm getting an ESLint error,
which is not an error, it's a warning I guess.
Like maybe you should destructure the first item
into the value like that
and that might look a little bit confusing
but what this is saying
is like if we had another variable called secondFile,
that would go there but in our case,
we're gonna say give me the first thing out
of the e.target.files array
and stick that thing into our value.
Now I believe if we upload something,
there we go, now our image is not an array
but it's got all the stuff,
the name and the buffer size,
the type, all that good stuff.
Okay, so that's the first one.
Next what we wanna do is get the description going.
So we'll go back to our CreateProduct here.
We also need to put an image of an empty string here
just as an initial value.
And then let's go right below the price here, duplicate it.
We'll say Description,
htmlFor,
description, type.
Okay, so this is going to be a textarea
and textareas cannot self-close,
so we'll have to do that ourselves.
Okay.
Input, there's no type on the textarea.
There's an id, a name and a placeholder.
The value is inputs.description
and onChange is the same onChange handler.
Oh, look at that,
maybe textareas can be self-closed in React.
It's just auto.
So you watch this, give it a save
and my ESLint automatically did it.
So in React land, textareas can be self-closed.
That's not valid HTML.
There we go, there's our description showing up
because we have this nice little default here.
Okay, so that's the first little bit of sort
of rendering it on out.
What we need to do now
is to listen for when somebody clicks on this
and we need to capture that event.
So right now if I click on it,
you see what it does is it just puts the stuff
in the URL bar and that's not what we want.
So what we'll do here is we'll take our Form tag
and we'll listen for the submit event.
So we'll say onSubmit is equal to,
now, we could make another thing called handleSubmit
and up here we could just make
a function called handleSubmit
or you can just do it in line.
So you could do it here.
You pass the event and you do all your work in here.
Or I'm gonna show you another way
is sometimes when your functions are small,
you can just do them in line like this.
That's just a little arrow function
where you get the event
and then here, we will e.preventDefault
and that will stop it from submitting
to the server side and putting all the stuff
that we were setting in the URL bar here
and then let's just console.log inputs.
So Form submit, prevent the default
and then log the inputs.
So we'll open up our console here,
go ahead and submit that.
Boom, and you get the object here,
description, image, name and price.
One thing we can do is let's go to this image input here
and let's pop a required on that
just so that if you do submit it without an image,
we get a little bit of validation.
There we go.
It tells us that we need to add it.
Okay, so I think that's enough for this video.
We've rendered out our form,
we've got all the inputs working.
In the next one what we'll do
is we'll hook it up to our backend GraphQL mutation
so that the data that we just console.logged here
actually gets sent over to the backend.